deploy/charts/emqx/README.md, before:

# Introduction
This chart bootstraps an emqx deployment on a Kubernetes cluster using the Helm package manager. 

# Prerequisites
+ Kubernetes 1.6+
+ Helm

# Installing the Chart
To install the chart with the release name `my-emqx`:

+   From github 
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/emqx/emqx.git
    $ cd emqx/deploy/charts/emqx
    $ helm install my-emqx .
    ```

+   From chart repos
    ```
    helm repo add emqx https://repos.emqx.io/charts
    helm install my-emqx emqx/emqx
    ```
    > If you want to install an unstable version, you need to add `--devel` when you execute the `helm install` command.

# Uninstalling the Chart
To uninstall/delete the `my-emqx` deployment:
```
$ helm del  my-emqx
```

# Configuration
The following table lists the configurable parameters of the emqx chart and their default values.

| Parameter  | Description | Default Value |
| ---        |  ---        | ---           |
| `replicaCount` | It is recommended to have odd number of nodes in a cluster, otherwise the emqx cluster cannot be automatically healed in case of net-split. |3|
| `image.repository` | EMQ X Image name |emqx/emqx|
| `image.pullPolicy`  | The image pull policy  |IfNotPresent|
| `image.pullSecrets `  | The image pull secrets  |`[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)|
| `recreatePods` | Forces the recreation of pods during upgrades, which can be useful to always apply the most recent configuration. | false |
| `persistence.enabled` | Enable EMQX persistence using PVC |false|
| `persistence.storageClass` | Storage class of backing PVC |`nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)|
| `persistence.existingClaim` | EMQ X data Persistent Volume existing claim name, evaluated as a template |""|
| `persistence.accessMode` | PVC Access Mode for EMQX volume |ReadWriteOnce|
| `persistence.size` | PVC Storage Request for EMQX volume |20Mi|
| `initContainers` | Containers that run before the creation of EMQX containers. They can contain utilities or setup scripts. |`{}`|
| `resources` | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits |{}|
| `nodeSelector` | Node labels for pod assignment |`{}`|
| `tolerations` | Toleration labels for pod assignment |`[]`|
| `affinity` | Map of node/pod affinities |`{}`|
| `service.type`  | Kubernetes Service type. |ClusterIP|
| `service.mqtt`  | Port for MQTT. |1883|
| `service.mqttssl` | Port for MQTT(SSL). |8883|
| `service.mgmt`  | Port for mgmt API. |8081|
| `service.ws`  | Port for WebSocket/HTTP. |8083|
| `service.wss`  | Port for WSS/HTTPS. |8084|
| `service.dashboard`  | Port for dashboard. |18083|
| `service.nodePorts.mqtt`  | Kubernetes node port for MQTT. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.mqttssl` | Kubernetes node port for MQTT(SSL). |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.mgmt`  | Kubernetes node port for mgmt API. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.ws`  | Kubernetes node port for WebSocket/HTTP. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.wss`  | Kubernetes node port for WSS/HTTPS. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.dashboard`  | Kubernetes node port for dashboard. |nil|
| `service.loadBalancerIP`  | loadBalancerIP for Service |	nil |
| `service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` |	Address(es) that are allowed when service is LoadBalancer |	[] |
| `service.annotations` |	Service annotations |	{}(evaluated as a template)|
| `ingress.dashboard.enabled` |	Enable ingress for EMQX Dashboard |	false |
| `ingress.dashboard.path` | Ingress path for EMQX Dashboard |	/ |
| `ingress.dashboard.hosts` | Ingress hosts for EMQX Mgmt API |	dashboard.emqx.local |
| `ingress.dashboard.tls` | Ingress tls for EMQX Mgmt API |	[] |
| `ingress.dashboard.annotations` | Ingress annotations for EMQX Mgmt API |	{} |
| `ingress.mgmt.enabled` |	Enable ingress for EMQX Mgmt API |	false |
| `ingress.mgmt.path` | Ingress path for EMQX Mgmt API |	/ |
| `ingress.mgmt.hosts` | Ingress hosts for EMQX Mgmt API |	api.emqx.local |
| `ingress.mgmt.tls` | Ingress tls for EMQX Mgmt API |	[] |
| `ingress.mgmt.annotations` | Ingress annotations for EMQX Mgmt API |	{} |
| `emqxConfig` | Emqx configuration item, see the [documentation](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx) | |
| `emqxAclConfig` | Emqx acl configuration item, see the [documentation](https://docs.emqx.io/broker/latest/en/advanced/acl-file.html) | |

Commit message:

feat(helm): add externalIPs to chart (#5201)
* fix(helm): add externalIPs to chart

* Update values.yaml

* Update service.yaml

* Update README.md

* Update Chart.yaml

* do not update helm version

deploy/charts/emqx/README.md, after:

# Introduction
This chart bootstraps an emqx deployment on a Kubernetes cluster using the Helm package manager. 

# Prerequisites
+ Kubernetes 1.6+
+ Helm

# Installing the Chart
To install the chart with the release name `my-emqx`:

+   From github 
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/emqx/emqx.git
    $ cd emqx/deploy/charts/emqx
    $ helm install my-emqx .
    ```

+   From chart repos
    ```
    helm repo add emqx https://repos.emqx.io/charts
    helm install my-emqx emqx/emqx
    ```
    > If you want to install an unstable version, you need to add `--devel` when you execute the `helm install` command.

# Uninstalling the Chart
To uninstall/delete the `my-emqx` deployment:
```
$ helm del  my-emqx
```

# Configuration
The following table lists the configurable parameters of the emqx chart and their default values.

| Parameter  | Description | Default Value |
| ---        |  ---        | ---           |
| `replicaCount` | It is recommended to have odd number of nodes in a cluster, otherwise the emqx cluster cannot be automatically healed in case of net-split. |3|
| `image.repository` | EMQ X Image name |emqx/emqx|
| `image.pullPolicy`  | The image pull policy  |IfNotPresent|
| `image.pullSecrets `  | The image pull secrets  |`[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)|
| `recreatePods` | Forces the recreation of pods during upgrades, which can be useful to always apply the most recent configuration. | false |
| `persistence.enabled` | Enable EMQX persistence using PVC |false|
| `persistence.storageClass` | Storage class of backing PVC |`nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)|
| `persistence.existingClaim` | EMQ X data Persistent Volume existing claim name, evaluated as a template |""|
| `persistence.accessMode` | PVC Access Mode for EMQX volume |ReadWriteOnce|
| `persistence.size` | PVC Storage Request for EMQX volume |20Mi|
| `initContainers` | Containers that run before the creation of EMQX containers. They can contain utilities or setup scripts. |`{}`|
| `resources` | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits |{}|
| `nodeSelector` | Node labels for pod assignment |`{}`|
| `tolerations` | Toleration labels for pod assignment |`[]`|
| `affinity` | Map of node/pod affinities |`{}`|
| `service.type`  | Kubernetes Service type. |ClusterIP|
| `service.mqtt`  | Port for MQTT. |1883|
| `service.mqttssl` | Port for MQTT(SSL). |8883|
| `service.mgmt`  | Port for mgmt API. |8081|
| `service.ws`  | Port for WebSocket/HTTP. |8083|
| `service.wss`  | Port for WSS/HTTPS. |8084|
| `service.dashboard`  | Port for dashboard. |18083|
| `service.nodePorts.mqtt`  | Kubernetes node port for MQTT. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.mqttssl` | Kubernetes node port for MQTT(SSL). |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.mgmt`  | Kubernetes node port for mgmt API. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.ws`  | Kubernetes node port for WebSocket/HTTP. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.wss`  | Kubernetes node port for WSS/HTTPS. |nil|
| `service.nodePorts.dashboard`  | Kubernetes node port for dashboard. |nil|
| `service.loadBalancerIP`  | loadBalancerIP for Service |	nil |
| `service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` |	Address(es) that are allowed when service is LoadBalancer |	[] |
| `service.externalIPs` |	ExternalIPs for the service |	[] |
| `service.annotations` |	Service annotations |	{}(evaluated as a template)|
| `ingress.dashboard.enabled` |	Enable ingress for EMQX Dashboard |	false |
| `ingress.dashboard.path` | Ingress path for EMQX Dashboard |	/ |
| `ingress.dashboard.hosts` | Ingress hosts for EMQX Mgmt API |	dashboard.emqx.local |
| `ingress.dashboard.tls` | Ingress tls for EMQX Mgmt API |	[] |
| `ingress.dashboard.annotations` | Ingress annotations for EMQX Mgmt API |	{} |
| `ingress.mgmt.enabled` |	Enable ingress for EMQX Mgmt API |	false |
| `ingress.mgmt.path` | Ingress path for EMQX Mgmt API |	/ |
| `ingress.mgmt.hosts` | Ingress hosts for EMQX Mgmt API |	api.emqx.local |
| `ingress.mgmt.tls` | Ingress tls for EMQX Mgmt API |	[] |
| `ingress.mgmt.annotations` | Ingress annotations for EMQX Mgmt API |	{} |
| `emqxConfig` | Emqx configuration item, see the [documentation](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx) | |
| `emqxAclConfig` | Emqx acl configuration item, see the [documentation](https://docs.emqx.io/broker/latest/en/advanced/acl-file.html) | |
