This patch introduces a new routing table synchronization mechanism.
Version of the routing table schema has been stepped to `v3`.
Compatibility with the previous schema (`v2`) is provided.

The new schema changes the mechanism of route synchronization between
the nodes. With schema v3, each node (core or replicant) takes full
ownership of the routing table entries pointing towards it, giving
peer nodes only read-only access to these entries.

This improves partition-tolerance of the EMQX cluster, as peer nodes
in a partitioned cluster cannot change the routing table on behalf of
other nodes. Also it improves latency of `SUBACK` on replicant nodes.

### Backward compatibility

When an EMQX node supporting routing schema v3 (or "new" node) joins a
cluster of nodes only supporting v2 schema ("old" nodes), it keeps
using `v2` schema for compatibility. New nodes will also use
compatibility mode if any existing node in the cluster uses
compatibility mode.

Therefore, to switch the cluster to routing schema `v3`, a full
restart of the cluster should be performed after upgrade.

If for some reason automatic switch to schema `v3` should be
prevented, `broker.routing.storage_schema` configuration parameter can
be set to `v2`.

### Downgrade

Note that after the cluster switches to routing schema `v3`, rolling
EMQX downgrade becomes impossible.

### Notes for operator

Checking routing schema version can be done using the following
command:

```
emqx eval 'emqx_router:get_schema_vsn()'
```

